- So the entire bean structure and the data all of that
is ready with us, now let's go on and test out this
small application, so we will create a Jsonb instance
from the JsonbBuilder, so Jsonb the default engine
that we have used before as well and all the default
settings that we saw before were set by that Jsonb
default agent, Jsonb instances that you create are
thread safe and they can also be reused
Moreover, the specification says that you can use
one instance per conflict type
In the previous demo, we used separate instance to
serialize and deserialize, but we can just use
one of them, so let's go ahead to the IDE
Let's create a test class, let's say, we are testing
many data types now, because it's a lot of objects
going around, so let's say test data types, and let's
grab the bean method and we get the Jsonb default
engine instance, so, that you can get by the
JsonbBuilder, API, and let's call it create API
So once that's done, let's correct the spelling for this
OK now let's go ahead and say Jsonb.tojson, so the process
is pretty much the same you've already seen previously
but this time what we're going to do is, we are going
to write this entire json representation in a file
We're not just gonna have a string for it, we're gonna
write it out in a file
So let's do one thing, let's have try with resources
statement, where you have a writer object
Let's feed in a new file writer and then a new file object
inside it and let's give part of the file as order.ext
so that's the x file in which the entire serialized
object of that order is going to go inside
OK and what are we going to do inside it, we just have
to say writer.write and what are we going to write?
What we are going to write is let's take that jsonb engine
instance and say .tojson and we have to feed the order
object here, but in order to feed the order object, yes
we will have to get the order object from the data
generator class that we saw in the previous video
So let's do that before, online 29 I'll create the order
reference and I'll call the data generator that I have
in my utilities package and just take the data
So once this is opting you just have to copy this and
paste it on that line number 26
OK and after that of course we have to say writer.flush
because the contents have to get copied into that file
OK so once we do this we have to add a catch clause
for this, here and we're ready, so now the file is order
on EXT, it should get created in your project structure
itself, OK and the next step we'll do is use Jsonb
from Json which is going to convert that Json string
back to the original bean structure, so let's come back
What are we going to do here is we are going to take
that same Jsonb instance here and say .fromJson and this
time we are going to read that Json structure from
the file that we just saved, so the first thing is this
writing operation will happen which will save this file,
then we'll take that same file and we'll read
the entire Json structure back and it should return
to us this time an order object, so let's do that
Let's come on line 35 and say new, file reader, do that
provide the file object, to that provide the file which
is simple, in the project structure so I'm just referring
it directly, and what is the type that we want, we want
order.class, because that's the object that we intend
to serialize and deserialize, OK and let's also do one
thing, let's take the entire output of this quickly
in an order object and do you see that it is so easy
to do that, we'll name it differently, we'll say
deserialized order, it's that simple, you just have
to create a reference of your order and the entire
deserialization process will quickly help you to
fetch the data in that order object
Let's not do throws, let's do dry catch, OK
So now I'm gonna print the contents of this order reference
so I'll say system out on line 39 and jut print this out
that's all, so let's run this application and see how
it behaves, OK it did print me, do you see
the entire object got printed, but I don't have
the serialized input, so for that we'll have
to see this file that must have got created in your
project structure, so let's go there, here it got
created, so I'm under my beans projects folder
Jsonb sample, that's where the project is and I
just have to right click this, OK so that's the Jsonb
representation and it is very cumbersome to look at it
because it's one long straight line, OK so let's do one
thing let's pick up this entire line, copy, and let's
go to our very own jsonlint.com and let's paste
that entire string here and save data I json and there you
go now it's formatted for us so it's easy to read
so that's the customer object with all its fields
the numbers, the strings, the order values
then we have a couple of date fields which we had picked
up as local date API from Java time package
And then we have the order details object which is called
a list of products, so that becomes an array now
because it was a list of products in our Java class
so those are the fields for the first product
the second one, the third one, the fourth one
and now do you see that under the fourth product
I do not have the shipping company attribute listed
at all, that's because shipping company was set to null
and null values will not be picked up in serialization
however, after you finish up the fourth product
there's a null value right there, that's the null
entry in the collection, and json is going to retain
all the null entries during serialization
Null is a valid value in any collection class that
you use in Java and Jsonb aligns with that behavior
OK and then you have the shipping address, and then
its respective fields, the total amount, and the order ID
and then finally the json has its closing braces right
there, OK so every object has a key, right, and all
of these keys are picked up from all the instances of names
that we have declared as a part of a B, OK so that's
how this goes, so that's about serialization, now when
we come to deserialization, that's what we did, we
actually read the entire order.ext file and then we got
the entire deserialized content in an order reference
and we printed that out and that's how it looks like
so let's maximize the console, yeah there it is
so you have your order object inside which you have
order details and order details points to order details
object again, so then we have inside that products
which points to a number of product objects
OK one by one, and then you also have the shipping
address and the customer details and all of that
So this output is a result of the two string
implementation in all our Java beans, you will not
be able to format this because this is Java object
OK we'll be able to format only the Jsonb representation
that we saw earlier, so that now we've seen serialization
and deserialization for a lot of data types for all kinds
of objects and for a complicated combination of objects
let's go and do some more stuff in the upcoming videos